docs(instance): add instance groups (#6783)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/instances/troubleshooting/fix-common-instance-group-errors.mdx

---
title: Fix common Instance group errors
description: This page helps you understand and resolve the error states you may encounter with Scaleway Instance groups.
tags: instance-group autoscaling load-balancer quota error troubleshooting
dates:
  validation: 2026-08-12
  posted: 2026-08-12
---

This page helps you understand and resolve the error states an [Instance group](/instances/concepts/#instance-group) can display on the [Instances dashboard](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers) and on the group **Overview** tab.

## Instance type is out of stock

### Symptoms

- The Instances dashboard displays the banner **Instance type temporarily unavailable**.
- An Instance group displays the **Insufficient capacity** status.
- The **Overview** tab of the group displays the banner **The Instance type used by this group's template is currently out of stock**.

### Cause

> The Instance type defined in the [Instance template](/instances/concepts/#instance-template) of the group is out of stock in the Availability Zone of the group. The group cannot provision new Instances, and cannot scale up, until stock is restored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Instance type defined in the [Instance template](/instances/concepts/#instance-template) of the group is out of stock in the Availability Zone of the group. The group cannot provision new Instances or scale up, until stock is restored.
```

### Solution

1. [Create a new Instance template](/instances/how-to/create-manage-instance-templates/) using an available Instance type.
2. [Create a new Instance group](/instances/how-to/create-manage-instance-groups/) from this template.

## Insufficient Instance quota

### Symptoms

- The Instances dashboard displays the banner **Instances or groups may fail to create or scale due to insufficient quotas**.
- An Instance group displays the **Insufficient Instance quota** status.

### Cause

Your Organization has reached its Instance quota, so the group cannot create or scale the Instances it needs.

### Solution

1. [Add and verify a payment method](/account/how-to/verify-identity/), and verify your identity document, to increase your quotas.
2. Alternatively, click **Check quotas** in the banner to review your current [Organization quotas](/organizations-and-projects/how-to/manage-quotas/).

> 3. If you have already completed these steps, click **Open support ticket** to contact Scaleway Support.

Reviewer: I would add where they have to click **Open support ticket**. (Is it in the banner?)

## Instance limit reached due to Load Balancer capacity

### Symptoms

- The Instances dashboard displays the banner **Instances limit reached**.
- The group's **Overview** tab displays the banner **Instance limit reached**, stating that the Load Balancer attached to the group limits how many Instances can run.

### Cause

The [Load Balancer](/load-balancer/concepts/#load-balancer) attached to the group for traffic routing does not have enough backend capacity for the group to reach its configured maximum Instance count.

### Solution

- Click **Edit Load Balancer** in the banner to [resize the Load Balancer](/load-balancer/how-to/resize-lb/) to a larger size.
- Alternatively, remove some existing Instances from the group to free up capacity on the Load Balancer.

## Several errors occur at the same time

### Symptoms

> The Instances dashboard and the **Overview** tab of the groupdisplay a generic banner, **Unable to scale or deploy resources**, mentioning unavailable Instance types, quota restrictions, and Load Balancer capacity limits together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Instances dashboard and the **Overview** tab of the group display a generic banner, **Unable to scale or deploy resources**, mentioning unavailable Instance types, quota restrictions, and Load Balancer capacity limits together.
```

### Cause

More than one of the issues described above (out-of-stock Instance type, insufficient quota, Load Balancer capacity) affects the group at the same time. Rather than stacking several banners, the console displays a single, generic message.

### Solution

Check each potential cause individually:

- Review whether the Instance type used by the group's template is [out of stock](#instance-type-is-out-of-stock).
- Review whether your Organization has [insufficient quota](#insufficient-instance-quota).
- Review whether the attached [Load Balancer has reached its capacity](#instance-limit-reached-due-to-load-balancer-capacity).

> If the group still fails to scale or deploy after checking these points, click **Open support ticket** to contact Scaleway Support.

Reviewer: I would add where they have to click Open support ticket. (Is it in the banner?)
